today we're looking at one method of
recording good quality audio while we're
shooting our video we're going to look
at double system sound and basically
what this is it's when we use two
different devices one to record the
audio and one to record the video
separately now why do you ask do I need
two systems my camera has a built-in
microphone yeah it probably does most of
today's little point shoot cameras shoot
real quality high def video the problem
is most of them do not have a microphone
input so the audio you get is fine if
you're standing close to the camera
because it's going to pick up my voice
but as I move further away from the
camera the sound make it more distant I
said you probably won't hear anything
I'd say well my back is turned away from
the camera because the microphone is in
there what we want to do is put a
microphone on me so what I've done is
put in my pocket an audio recording
device this particular one I'll show you
that this is the zoom h1 and this is a
small digital audio recorder this
records a really high fidelity stereo
sound it's small lightweight now they
make more expensive units in this line
bigger ones with more inputs and they're
very expensive this one costs about $100
which is still a lot of money but you
can get good quality sound with it now
it's got built-in stereo mics or you can
plug in a clip-on mic which is what I'm
using here to get the best sound now let
me just demonstrate if I unplug this you
see the mics on the top are actually
picking up the sound and it is good
quality sound but then I have to hold
this like a handheld microphone and if
there's any wind it's gonna pick up on
those as well
this little clip-on microphone that way
I can take this recorder put up my
pocket now wherever I walk I can come
way down here my back's to the camera I
come way down here by the creek I'm
still gonna get really good sound
because the microphone is right here
it's not up there on the camera it's
kind of like having a wireless
microphone system which is what brand I
use on our on our other camcorder it's
got built-in wireless mics but for
someone shooting with a pointer shoot
this is this is a great way to get good
audio here's a little demonstration of
the difference between the audio sources
we've recorded
first of all let's cut to the camera so
right now you're hearing my sound as
it's being recorded into the GoPro and
I'm standing about four or five feet
away from that camera now we're gonna
switch to the audio being recorded on a
zoom h1 digital recorder and that is
using this little clip-on mic that's
clipped onto my best here in my opinion
that is the best quality audio okay so
now you're probably wondering well what
am I going to do with my video and my
audio when I get back
somehow I got to synchronize these
things on my computer well here's a
little tip to help you do that when
you've got everything set up when the
cameras rolling and your audio device is
recording bang your hands together in a
clapping motion that makes a lot of
noise like this now the reason we did
that now we have an audio and a video
cue that I can synchronize up on my
computer the audio cue obviously when
our hands come together you'll see a
spike in the audio track and the visual
cue is my hands as they touch so
basically just line those up on your
editing system you have the one track
with your video so you see your hands
come together and if your audio track
seeing the audio spike if you line those
up from that point onwards everything
should be synchronized